Beeld:Wapen katwijk.PNG


     * Beeld
     * Lêergeskiedenis
     * Prentskakels

   Beeld:Wapen katwijk.PNG
   Geen hoëre resolusie beskikbaar nie.
   Wapen_katwijk.PNG (206 × 246 pixel, file size: 3 KG, MIME type:
   image/png)
   Hierdie is 'n bydrae vanuit die Wikimedia Commons, 'n versameling vrye
   inhoud wat deur die Wikimedia Foundation ondersteun en gedra word. Sien
   die ooreenstemmende beskrywingsblad op die Commons vir meer inligting
   oor hierdie spesifieke bydrae.
   The description on its lêer beskrywingsbladsy on the shared repository
   is shown below.
   Nederlands: Wapen van nl:Karwijk (Zuid-Holland)

[edit] Licensing

   Public domain Coat of arms of a Dutch official authority

   This image depicts a coat of arms of a Dutch governmental jurisdiction,
   municipality, province, water board (Dutch "Waterschap") or diocese.
   These coats of arms have been registered with the Hoge Raad van Adel
   [1], and are still being used in rubber stamps. Although forging of
   municipal/provincial rubber stamps is forbidden, every person is
   allowed to use the image of the arms. Actually 'using' it (The
   impression of the coat or seal) may be restricted. See memo MinBiZa
   (Dutch).

   Fragment from the memo: The depiction of a municipal seal is allowed:
   the municipality holds no rights of creation of the seal. There is also
   no objection against the use of a municipal seal for localising objects
   that are traded or that are being advertised, just as long it is
   ensured that no impression of municipal involvement or responsibility
   is created.

   In view of Dutch legislation this image is regarded as being in the
   public domain, as are reproductions of this seal.

Lêergeskiedenis

   Klik op die datum/tyd om te sien hoe die lêer destyds gelyk het.
   Datum/Tyd Dimensies Gebruiker Opmerking
   huidig 16:10, 17 Julie 2006 206×246 (3 KG) PPP (Taken from Dutch
   Wikipedia, where the comment was: ({{PD-NL-gemeentewapen}}))

Prentskakels

   Die volgende bladsye gebruik hierdie prent:
     * Katwijk

