Wikipediabespreking:Ambassade


   Inhoud

        * 1 Beeld:Malachite-Kingfisher.jpg
        * 2 Wikizine
        * 3 Potje
        * 4 Message from Nepal Bhasa Wikipedia
        * 5 for an information

[wysig] Beeld:Malachite-Kingfisher.jpg

   You have this image, which someone seems to have copied from English
   Wikipedia. However, people in English Wikipedia have found out that the
   image doesn't belong to the public domain. Instead, you can only use it
   for non-commercial or educational purposes. Such is too restrictive
   licence for Wikipedia. [1] You can't even use the image in Wikipedia
   under United Sates copyright law. In English Wikipedia they are going
   to delete the image. I think that you should do the same because the
   Wikipedia servers are located in United States. -85.76.146.129

[wysig] Wikizine

   Hi, I am w:nl:gebruiker:Walter of the dutch Wikipedia. I am writing you
   because your are listed as ambassador of your wiki. I have something to
   say that I think you will find useful and possibly others of your wiki
   also.

   You know it is not easy for the members of a local wiki to be informed
   about what is going on in the higher levels of the Wikimedia family.
   This because of the language problem and the high level of
   fragmentation of places where you can find information.

   I am now making a weekly news letter (Wikizine) that attempts to
   provide the news of the Wikimedia projects. The concept is to list only
   a very short description of the news an give the relevant url to the
   subject. I want it to be short, only give the news that is important
   for all projects. The target audience include the ambassadors. It is
   for people who are interested in what it going on outside there own
   wiki. I emphasize on the news that is practical-technical. The
   information comes form several "news"-pages on several wikis, the
   mailinglists and IRC. There will be news I can not discover. If you
   have news found somewhere or from you own wiki please let my know.
   wikizine AT wikipedia.be

   I can only create one version in something that supposed to be English.
   I count on the readers to inform there local wiki about the news in
   there own language.

   Wikizine is send by use of the mailinglist Announce-l. It is only used
   for this. So people can subscribe without being swamped by emails like
   the lists.

   http://mail.wikipedia.org/mailman/listinfo/announce-l

   I hope that you and others of your wiki will subscribe to Wikizine and
   give feedback. So that Wikizine can become really a source where
   Wikimedians can find out what is going on. Greetings,
   w:nl:gebruiker:Walter PS: do not repond here. I will not see it.

[wysig] Potje

   Is the word 'Potje' in Afrikaans? What is the translation?

   I'm asking because it's said to be the Afrikaans name of this cooking
   pot. Thanks, he:User:Felagund.

   In Afrikaans it is known as ysterpot, swart pot or just potjie. In
   English it is known as a dutch-oven.

          "Pot" in Afrikaans and Dutch has the same meaning as the same
          word in English. It can be used for "cooking pot". "-je" is a
          suffix added to a word to form a dimmunitive. Well, in Dutch
          only, because in Afrikaans the suffix is "-jie", so the word is
          "Potjie".

          The image you refer to has to do with Potjiekos. Danielm 19:50,
          21 Augustus 2006 (UTC)

                Great - thanks! he:User:Felagund.

   All active members of Wikimedia projects are invited to

[wysig] Message from Nepal Bhasa Wikipedia

   Nepal Bhasa wikipedia has recently started developing here . We would
   like to increase co-ordination between the two wikipedia, share
   resources as well as to learn from this version. If someone is
   interested, please visit Nepal Bhasa Embassy. Thank you. --Eukesh

[wysig] for an information

   Pour quelconqu'un qui habite au Bénin et qui veut voyager sur
   Singapour, comment doit-il procéder pour avoir le visa?

   un visa de la Malaisie permet-il d'entrer en Singapour?

          We do not provide travel or visa information, I'm afraid. Your
          best bet would be to contact the Embassy in Singapour (they
          ought to have a website with an email address) and ask them
          directly. Anrie 17:03, 12 Junie 2007 (UTC)

