Wikipedia:Elections


   Please translate into Afrikaans and post prominently for all users to
   see:

   Hello Everyone,

   Elections for the Board of Trustees of the Wikimedia Foundation are
   around the corner. We are preparing to vote for the representatives who
   will speak for the many Wikimedia contributors who work so hard to make
   this the thriving community that it is. The Board is entrusted with the
   ultimate decision making for the Wikimedia Foundation. Its role is not
   website governance. For more information about the Wikimedia Foundation
   and the role of its Board of Trustees, see here 1.

   We are voting for two positions: Contributing Active Member
   Representative, and Volunteer User Representative. In order to vote for
   either of these positions you must have been with one of the Wikimedia
   projects for at least three months. In future elections, only
   Contributing Active Members (dues-paying members of the Wikimedia
   Foundation) will be able to vote for the Contributing Active Member
   Representative post, but for this first election it will be open to all
   Wikimedia contributors.

   All voters will have two votes, one for the Contributing Active Member
   Representative and one for the Volunteer User Representative. The
   election is run as First Past the Post, that is, the candidate with the
   most votes will be declared the winner.

   In the event of a tie, a run-off election will be held.

   If you wish to stand for election, please fill in an entry for yourself
   at 2.

   Candidates have until the end of Friday, 29th May 2004 to present
   themselves. The elections will start on Saturday, 30th May 2004 and
   last one week from that time ending Saturday, 12th June 2004 at
   midnight GMT, following which the final count will be announced.

   More information is forthcoming. Please look here 3 for details.

   One final note: If you speak another language, please translate this
   note and post it to the respective Wikipedias, Wikimedias,
   Wiktionaries, WikiBooks, WikiSources, WikiQuotes in those languages.
   Once you have done so, please notify us here 4. Be warned, however,
   that we may call on you again to help coordinate the election in those
   languages and relay additional information to those projects.

   This page is protected. Please address all comments to here 5.

   Finally, we would like to wish all of the candidates the best of luck
   in the election,

   Imran in English

   Danny in English

   Co-Chairs, Wikimedia Election Committee

