Wikipedia:Geselshoekie/MT


   < Wikipedia:Geselshoekie

   Inhoud

        * 1 Proposal
             + 1.1 Responding to responses
        * 2 Core topics
        * 3 Hersiening

[wysig] Proposal

   Hi, sorry that I write in English. I ask if anyone minds if I produce
   articles for the Afrikaans Wikipedia using machine translation from
   English. If I make them, would you like me to tag them as "Unedited
   Machine Translation", so they can be in a category and someone can look
   to fix them? If people object I will stop my experiments. Thanks :) -
   Francis Tyers 10:45, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

          It will depend on how accurate the translation is, I suppose.
          Maybe you would like to do one or two test articles? If the
          amount of fixing it needs is equal to the amount of effort it
          would take to write the article from scratch, then it obviously
          would not be useful. See The Star-Spangled Banner for an example
          of such an article (I don't know if it was automatically
          translated, but it sure is a big mess).

          I would like to see the results of one or two articles before I
          made up my mind. Anrie 11:00, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                I wouldn't be intending to translate long articles (not
                just yet anyway -- the system is not up to it). Some of
                the articles I've translated can be found with:
                Spesiaal:Contributions/Francis_Tyers, I would welcome your
                comments. Btw, if you do try out the system, note that I
                edit the output (to fix minor issues) — but am in no-way a
                native or even proficient speaker. - Francis Tyers 11:12,
                17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                      They look okay, but I would personally prefer to
                      have more than one sentence in any article. Anrie
                      11:15, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                            That can be arranged. Is there a minimum
                            amount of sentences you would like to see?
                            Also would you like to see them tagged?
                            (either on the page or the talk page) -
                            Francis Tyers 11:17, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                                  Well, I love tags, so you won't hear me
                                  complaining. The main page should be
                                  appropriate. I prefer at least a short
                                  paragraph - maybe four or five
                                  sentences? Of course, there is no
                                  definite minimum. Let's give this a test
                                  run with a few articles then we can see
                                  what it looks like. Anrie 11:28, 17 Mei
                                  2007 (UTC)

                                        Ok. - Francis Tyers 12:17, 17 Mei
                                        2007 (UTC)

                                              Ok, have a look at
                                              af:Khujand. I have to
                                              simplify some of the
                                              language (in English) as my
                                              lexical coverage is
                                              currently quite poor. Do you
                                              think you could manage with
                                              post-editing an article like
                                              this per day? - Francis
                                              Tyers 12:24, 17 Mei 2007
                                              (UTC)

                                              The article looks okay -
                                              there are a few oddities
                                              which I already corrected,
                                              but for the most part it
                                              seems okay.

                                              Certainly an article (or
                                              even two or three) per day
                                              would be acceptable. I'm
                                              sure you can appreciate that
                                              a flood of such articles
                                              would most certainly create
                                              a bit of problem for the few
                                              active editors here. But
                                              your suggestion sounds more
                                              than reasonable. Thank you
                                              for your effort to help
                                              improve our Wikipedia. Anrie
                                              12:29, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                                              Great, thanks :) I certainly
                                              wouldn't want to flood you,
                                              which is why I bought it up
                                              here first. I'll see if I
                                              can take care of the
                                              oddities in the system so
                                              you will need to do less
                                              editing next time. - Francis
                                              Tyers 12:39, 17 Mei 2007
                                              (UTC)

   One question: could you, if possible, on the talk page or in the
   summary mention from where you are translating. Sometimes it might not
   be clear exactly what is meant by a certain phrase or sentence and then
   it is helpful to be able to access the original text. Anrie 12:31, 17
   Mei 2007 (UTC)

          Yep, no problem. I mention it in the edit summary, but I can
          leave a note on the talk page. Could you help me create a
          template with something like "This page was translated from
          en:Page using Apertium. Please fix the spelling and grammar
          where appropriate". (You can decide what to put). - Francis
          Tyers 12:39, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                Unless the program is directly affiliated with Wikimedia,
                I'm afraid that mentioning it in the template will
                constitute advertising, which isn't allowed. There's
                nothing that prevents you from mentioning it on the talk
                page though.

                If you don't mind, I'd like to let this discussion set a
                bit and allow other users to read it and voice their
                opinions, if they have any. If there aren't any objections
                to your method in the next day or two, I'll create the
                tag. Anrie 12:43, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                      Ok, no problem, I understand. — also no problem with
                      letting this stand for a few days. The more input
                      the better. - Francis Tyers 12:48, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                            Yeah, totally, my vote goes for this project.
                            Praat van projek, dalk moet ons 'n projek of
                            'n ding stig? Ek't al baie op die Engelse
                            Wikipedia gesien dat hulle groot projekte het
                            soos "Wiki Bible" en "Music Articles" en goed
                            soos dit; dalk kan ons 'n projek maak wat soos
                            byvoorbeeld al die getagde artikels wat direk
                            vertaal is wys en sê watter moet nog vertaal
                            word, ensovoorts... dis maar net 'n oop idee,
                            maar vir tyd en wyl is ek vir die vertaling
                            van die artikels vanuit Engels na Afrikaans
                            deur middel van 'n rekenaar. Ek dink hier is
                            genoeg aktiewe mense op Wikipedia, en dit kan
                            net meer word, plus Wikipedia is hier om
                            ge-edit te word, so as daar so hier en daar
                            probleme opduik met betrekking tot die
                            verkeerdvertaalde woorde wat sal te voorskyn
                            kom, sal dit vir ons rede gee om so 'n bietjie
                            meer aktief te wees en edits te maak, al mag
                            dit dalk hoe min wees... maar watookal. Ek
                            praat seker nou te veel. Al wat ek sê is dat
                            ek hierdie idee van Francis steun. ► Adriaan (
                            Spreek ★ Bydraes ) ♪♫ 13:32, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

          Ons moet darem net seker maak dat ons werk aan belangrike
          goeters, en werk vanaf hoë kwaliteit artikels. Ons het vir eers
          genoeg 5-sin artikels oor obskure onderwerpe. Thank you for your
          interest, Francis. I think we should ensure that it actually
          benefits our project in tangible ways. We had some bad
          experience with MT-people before. Thanks for at least asking
          first :-) I think we should just stay aware that most of our
          editors don't just translate the English, but tries to compile
          the best out of all languages they understand, often at least en
          and nl, but for some of us also de and fr, apart from other
          external sources. We try to do better than the English where
          possible, and this will make it very easy to get lazy in doing
          real encyclopaedic writing. But if this proves good enough, it
          can be a great help. Ideally I think it should rather be a tool
          used by the each editor, rather than the editors becoming a part
          in an assembly line, if you understand what I mean. --Alias
          16:21, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                      Yes, I understand. Actually, an nl-af system would
                      make sense and would probably give even higher
                      quality... but it would be harder for me to evaluate
                      as I don't even speak one of the languages. There is
                      a link from my page to where you can try it out, but
                      I think that at least for now, the amount of
                      post-editing I need to do (to fix some inflections
                      and remove some debugging symbols) is more than it
                      would take you to write the article from scratch. I
                      hope in the future that it will become a useful tool
                      for you guys (and girls), but for the moment it is
                      definitely in the 'testing and development' phase. -
                      Francis Tyers 23:10, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                Baie goed saamgevat, Alias. Ek het vandag eers hier
                aangekom en was baie bekommerd oor die outomatiese
                vertalery. Ons kan nie eksklusief wees nie, maar Wikipedia
                in Afrikaans moet daarop konsentreer om 'n goeie
                versameling van relevante, bruikbare artikels in goeie
                Afrikaans op te bou. Pendoring 16:36, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                [Very good *saamgevat, *Alias. I have today first here
                *aangekom and *was very anxious *oor the automatic
                *vertalery. We can not exclusive be, but Wikipedia in
                Afrikaans must *daarop concentrate *om a good collection
                of relevant, useful articles in good Afrikaans on too
                *bou.]

                      I understand your sentiment (actually I machine
                      translated it to get the 'gist' — see above for my
                      benefit) :) — it is important to me that unedited
                      machine translation output is not allowed to be
                      viewed by the public at large — it would bring
                      disrepute to the encyclopaedia. - Francis Tyers
                      23:10, 17 Mei 2007 (UTC)

          Vanaf Bespreking:Soedanese literatuur.

   Hierdie vertaalmasjien is 'n onding wat baie meer moeite gaan meebring
   as wat dit werd is. As die ding dan vervolmaak word, wat is nog die nut
   van Afrikaanse gebruikers, buiten om alles wat reeds in ander tale
   verskyn het, klakkeloos te láát vertaal. 2 000 000 artikels hier ons
   kom - ek bedoel "hier kom ons", nie dat die vertaalmasjien die verskil
   sal weet, ek bedoel "ken" nie. Morne 15:42, 18 Mei 2007 (UTC)

          Gebruiker:Francis Tyers is besig om 'n paar toets-artikels te
          probeer. As jy nie van die resultate hou nie, moet jy dit
          asseblief in Engels in die gebruikershoekie gaan sê. Hy wil
          graag terugvoering van die gebruikers hier hê. As te veel
          gebruikers hierteen gekant is sal hy ophou. Anrie 15:50, 18 Mei
          2007 (UTC)

          Hy moet sommer sy vertaalmasjien gebruik om my woorde te
          interpreteer. Ek sien hy het waarskynlik reeds, want hy het (op
          my besprekingsblad) afgelei ek hou nie daarvan nie. Morne 16:11,
          18 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                Ek dink nie dit gaan regtig oor wie hiervan hou nie.
                Indien artikels nie aanvaarbaar is nie, sal dit deur
                admins verwyder word. Ek het nou sopas 'n paar vertalings
                gedoen in die artikel, maar ek dink nie dis perfek reg
                nie, want my kennis van Engels is ook nie te goed nie.
                Wikipedia is hier om ge-edit te word. Edits wat nie deug
                nie, word deur iemand anders ge-edit of verwyder. Ek gee
                glad nie om om direkte vertalings te hervertaal nie. Dis
                tog wat ek in elk geval sou doen as ek van die Engelse
                wiki sou vertaal - en dan sou dit moeiliker wees omdat ek
                nie Engelssprekend is nie. ► Adriaan ( Spreek ★ Bydraes )
                ♪♫ 16:41, 18 Mei 2007 (UTC)

          Vanaf Gebruikerbespreking:Francis Tyers.

   I tried out your MT system and it looks like it might have potential.
   How would one go about helping to impove the system or develop
   translation in new language pairs? You mention in the geselshoekie that
   Dutch-Afrikaans should have potential. I would also be ionetrested in
   German-Afrikaans, particularly as the German Wikipedia is generally of
   good qualitry (often better than the Engelish equivalents). Does the
   online version have the latest language files?

   Laurens 07:06, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

   BTW - why did your project choose shallow-transfer machine translation?
   There seems to be a lot of energy on Statitical Machine tranlation,
   could one benefit from some of that work in your approach? Laurens
   07:06, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                      Opa! Sorry for the late replies... I chose shallow
                      transfer because 1) It is easy to get off the
                      ground, 2) It is fast, 3) It is open source. There
                      are open source statistical systems (e.g. Moses),
                      but this seemed like the best option at the time. 4)
                      I've been involved with the group producing the
                      engine (at Alicante) in packaging their software for
                      Debian. 5) Statistical systems require huge parallel
                      corpora, and even if these were available for
                      Afrikaans<->English, the chances are they wouldn't
                      be free (as in libre). I'll respond to your other
                      points below. I'll email you on your emailrespond
                      also on your talk page. - Francis Tyers 16:13, 20
                      Mei 2007 (UTC)

[wysig] Responding to responses

   It would seem that, while most users think Francis' system is a
   potentially useful one, other are worried that:
    1. It would amass to a flood of thousands of articles that:
         1. Are poorly written (spelling and syntactical errors)
         2. Would require a tremendous amount of effort to fix.
         3. Aren't especially good prose
         4. Concentrates on obscure objects.

   There would also seem to be a slight man vs. machine argument.

   It would indeed seem that some articles lend themselves better to
   automatic translation: Khujand had relatively few errors, while
   Soedanese literatuur had significantly more, so it's a bit of a gamble.

   I am surprised that I feel like supporting this project, even though I
   would normally support all of the above arguments.

   I suppose that I can see the potential of something like this if it
   were to concentrate on, perhaps, the subjects listed in
   en:Wikipedia:Core topics - 1,000. Naturally I wouldn't dream of telling
   others what they should write about - that is not Wikipedia's policy.
   People are allowed to write on whichever subject they wish, no matter
   how obscure some might think it is.

   I don't know how you go about choosing your topics - your past
   contributions have been so eclectic that it's been impossible for me to
   recognise a trend or a pattern. I do however feel that this Wikipedia
   is lacking articles on so many of the basic subjects, that a one or two
   paragraph stub on them would be invaluable, even if I had to go
   afterwards and "fix" everyone myself.

   Regarding the other arguments listed above, I would like to say:
    1. Francis has agreed to only do one stub/article a day, which would
       hardly equal a flood of articles.
         1. The articles would be naturally short, so the amount or errors
            would be minimal, taking no more than a few minutes to
            corrent.
         2. See above.
         3. Few of the stubs here are, but if they provide the relevant
            information, that should suffice until they are expanded.
         4. Since when are we allowed to tell people what they are allowed
            to write about?

   Even though I myself would not prefer to have articles on "obscure"
   subjects (at this moment in time), I realise that this is not the way
   Wikipedia works and that it would amount to a type of censorship to not
   allow certain articles. Even so, I find that many of his stubs aren't
   obscure - some people might find Soedanese literatuur obscure, but I
   think it's important. I suppose it depends on your field of interest
   and that everyone have different opinions on what is important and what
   not.

   Francis, I would really like to hear why you choose the articles you
   do. If you choose specific ones for your own personal reasons, then I
   am fine with it. If, however, it is somewhat random, I would again like
   to point out the en:Wikipedia:Core topics - 1,000, which I myself try
   to use (now and then, along with the featured articles) when trying to
   decide which article to translate next.

   Anrie 08:12, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                      Ok, I chose the articles partly because I worked on
                      them on the English Wikipedia (Sudanese literature),
                      and partly because I'm interested in the area
                      (Tajikistan). The only pattern is my interests. I
                      would be happy to adjust my translating to articles
                      that you direct. Actually I think the 'Core topics'
                      would be a good way of improving the quality of the
                      dictionaries. I hadn't thought of that before, but
                      it is a good idea. - Francis Tyers 16:28, 20 Mei
                      2007 (UTC)

                Ek dink alles wat almal nog oor die Afrikaanse Wikipedia
                gesê het, kom neer op gehalte bo getalle. Wikipedia bied
                'n platform aan mense om kreatief mee te werk aan 'n
                ensiklopedie deur mense, oor mense (en visse, voëls,
                diere, berge, mere ens.), vir mense. As vertaalmasjiene
                (VM'S) in so 'n mate verfyn word dat hulle na aan volmaak
                is, skakel dit amper geheel en al die rol van menslike
                bydraers uit (buiten hier en daar regstellings), en sal al
                die tale wat Wiki's en VM's het, oombliklik 1,7 miljoen
                artikels kan hê (na die Engelse Wiki).
                'n Beter oplossing sou wees dat gebruikers wat belang
                stel, toegang tot die VM verkry en dit dan as hulpmiddel
                by die skep van artikels gebruik, waar nodig. My Duits is
                byvoorbeeld verroes, dus met die skep van die artikel oor
                Curt von François sou dit gaaf wees om 'n VM te gehad het
                (selfs uit Engels in Duits), wat met enkele moeilike,
                onbekende woorde kon help. Anrie het eenmaal gesê ek moet
                veral let op my taal, juis omdat ek so baie artikels skep.
                Die VM kan van die Net afgelaai word. As ons dié werkswyse
                toelaat, kán daar voorkant toe 'n stortvloed geradbraakte
                artikels van ander gebruikers verskyn.
                Boonop is dit meer dikwels meer tydrowend om ander se twak
                reg te maak, as om sommer gou self 'n saadjie te skep want
                dikwels lei dit weer tot meningsverskille en debatte soos
                dié een. (Ek kon in die tyd dat die reaksie my geneem het,
                reeds nog twéé Duitse kommissarisse van Suidwes-Afrika
                ingesit het. Miskien moes ek . . . Morne 10:11, 20 Mei
                2007 (UTC)

          The above, translated for Francis, who doesn't speak a word of
          Afrikaans... Anrie 10:28, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                I think that what most have said about the Afrikaans
                Wikipedia, rests on quality above quantity. Wikipedia
                provides a platform for people to work together creatively
                on an encyclopaedia by people, about people (and fish,
                birds, animals, mountains, lakes, etc.), for people. If
                translation machines ("VMs") are refined to such a point
                that they are near perfection, it would make the role of
                all the human contributors redundant (except for a few
                corrections here and there), and all the languages which
                have Wikis and VMs could have 1.7 million articles
                instantaneously (after the English Wiki).

                A better solution would be for those users who are
                interested, to have access to the VM and use it as an aid
                when creating articles, where necessary. My German, for
                example, is quite rusty, thus, with the creation of an
                article on Curt von François it would have been nice to
                have a VM (even from English to German), which could have
                helped with 'n few difficult, unfamiliar words. Anrie has
                once said that I should concentrate om my language,
                especially since I create so many articles. The VM can be
                downloaded from the Net. If we allow this method, it can
                lead to a flood of messy articles from other users.

                Notwithstanding that it is often more time-consuming to
                fix another's bad work, as to quickly create a proper
                stub, since it often leads to differing opinions and
                debates like this one. (In the time this reaction took, I
                could have added two more German commissaries from
                Southwest Africa. Maybe I should have...) Signed, Morné.

                      I have already responded to some of the points
                      mentioned by Morné here, but he does make one very
                      valid one: I have mentioned a few times that when a
                      person continually contributes articles that are
                      sub-par, they should be made aware of that and that
                      we then expect of them to follow the guidelines on
                      style, syntax, spelling, etc.

                      My understanding was that this machine would be able
                      to learn from it's mistakes as it went along, and
                      that, after a while, the errors would be few and far
                      in between. Certainly we can't go deliberately
                      correcting an automatically translated article every
                      day for the next year, since this would have been
                      unacceptable if it was a human user who
                      transgressed.

                      Do you anticipate that your system will get better
                      as time goes by, Francis, or what are your end goals
                      with it? Anrie 10:35, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                                  Yes, it will get better, if it doesn't I
                                  hope you'd tell me so I know where I'm
                                  going wrong, and if I come up against an
                                  impass then I'll have to re-evaluate
                                  what I'm saying now. Currently the
                                  software is in extreme pre-alpha. For
                                  each article I translate from English, I
                                  first tweak the wording slightly in
                                  order for the machine to be able to
                                  translate it better, then translate it,
                                  then fix the formatting... as time goes
                                  on, and it improves then I hope that
                                  this pre-editing becomes unnecessary,
                                  and the end result improves.

                                  A much better pair using this system
                                  (Spanish - Catalan), which has been in
                                  development for a number of years
                                  produces very good translations. I don't
                                  expect to get to that quality with
                                  English - Afrikaans for a few months
                                  yet, but it should improve dramatically
                                  as I add both vocabulary and transfer
                                  rules.

                                  Just a short note that it won't learn
                                  automatically from the mistakes, I have
                                  to program it. So I submit and article,
                                  see what you change, and make the
                                  necessary changes to the machine. If I
                                  have any questions I'll ask you (if
                                  thats ok). - Francis Tyers 16:28, 20 Mei
                                  2007 (UTC)

                            I would also like to point out that calling
                            someone's work "twak" is derogatory and
                            uncalled for and that users should refrain
                            from deliberately using derogatory words when
                            discussing another user or his/her work. Anrie
                            11:02, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                                  Ek moet om vergifnis vra dat ek my aan
                                  die onvergeeflike sonde van die
                                  eufemisme skuldig gemaak het. Wat ek
                                  eintlik wou gesê het, is dat dit
                                  tydrowend is om ander se "kak" reg te
                                  maak. There are, daar is, many ways,
                                  baie maniere, to make others' work, om
                                  andere se werk, sound like, na kak,
                                  shit, te laat klink. Morne 21:05, 20 Mei
                                  2007 (UTC)

   Ek sal probeer, I shall endeavour, om voortaan, to hence forth, meer
   direk, be more direct, te wees. Morne 21:08, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

   As die Wikipedia, if the Wikipedia's, se hoofdoel, main aim is, om kak,
   to improve, te verbeter, other's shit, wil ek geen deel daaraan, then I
   want no part, hê nie, in it. Morne 21:11, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

          Ek dink jy moet bietjie gaan afkoel en miskien môre weer na die
          gesprek toe terugkom, Morné. Dit is heel duidelik dat iets jou
          omgekrap het, maar ek dink nie dat jou huidige gemoedstoestand
          enigsins jou vriend is op die oomblik nie. Anrie 21:18, 20 Mei
          2007 (UTC)

     * Sal dit nie miskien 'n goeie idee wees om hierdie gesprek na
       Wikipedia:Geselshoekie/MT te skuif nie? Dit is darem nou al baie
       lank. Anrie 21:42, 20 Mei 2007 (UTC)

          Dankie vir die skuif. Morné, Francis het sy idee hier gegee en
          eers begin toe mense hier aangedui het dat hulle dit sal regmaak
          en hy kan voortgaan - ek is seker hy sou daarop ag geslaan het
          as daar groot teenkanting was. Ek glo dus sy optrede was redelik
          alhoewel ek ook nie mal is oor die idee van masjienvertaling vir
          die Afrikaanse Wikipedia nie (ten minste nie op die huidige
          standaard nie). Verder, soos wat sommige van ons nie hou van
          masjienvertaling nie, hou sommige van ons nou weer nie van
          sekere registers van Afrikaans nie. Ek hoop ons kan maniere kry
          om mekaar te akkommodeer. --Alias 09:35, 21 Mei 2007 (UTC)

          Ek vra om verskoning dat ek my humeur verloor het. Ek wil net
          nie sien dat dubbele standaarde toegepas word nie. As ek nie by
          die letter van die reëls hou nie, word ek gou tereggewys (met
          woorde wat daarop neerkom dat ek nie moet twak aanjaag nie,
          hoewel die T-woord nie gebruik word nie), maar nou is daar 'n 4
          000-woorde-debat oor die wenslikheid van masjienvertalings, wat
          'n klomp ekstra en onnodige werk gaan skep. Selfs Google in al
          sy wysheid kan nie masjienvertaal dat dit na mensetaal klink
          nie. Vgl. hierdie reëls uit die Duitse treffer Ich weiß, es wird
          ein mal ein Wunder gescheh'n:

   Die Duits: Ich weiß es wird einmal ein Wunder gescheh'n und dann werden
   tausend Märchen wahr. Ich weiß so schnell kann keine Liebe vergeh'n die
   so groß ist und so wunderbar! Wir haben beide den selben Stern und dein
   Schicksal ist auch meins. Du bist mir fern und doch nicht fern denn
   uns're Seelen sind eins. Die Engels (met hulp deur afkappingstekens uit
   te haal): I white it once a miracle will happen and then will become
   thousand fairy tales truely. I white so fast cannot offense love so
   largely am so marvelous and! We do not have both same star and your
   fate are meins you are far and nevertheless also me far from our souls
   are one. Wat moes gewees het: I know one day a miracle will happen and
   then a thousand fairy tales will come true. I know a love that is so
   big and wonderful cannot fade so fast. We both have the same star and
   your fate is also mine. You are far from me, and yet not far because
   our souls are one. (Ek ek is seker hierop kan nog baie verbeter word.)
   Morne 09:58, 21 Mei 2007 (UTC)

[wysig] Core topics

          It might be a good idea to create a subpage -- also, do you have
          on Afrikaans Wikipedia a translation of the 'core topics' page?
          It might be a good idea to create it (with links), so people
          (myself included) can see what is done and what is not. Just an
          idea though... - Francis Tyers 08:38, 21 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                It's on my to-do list, you bet. I'm a bit busy with Real
                Life stuff at the moment, but I should have more time
                starting July. Even so, I'll see if I can translate it a
                little bit at a time during off periods. It'll have to be
                aproved afterwards by the community - I've seen the
                English one has been accused in the past of being too
                subjective or partial to certain topics. Even so, I think
                it provides an extremely good base to work from.

                I am curious as to why you have chosen Eng-Afr for this
                project. You've mentioned the Spanish to Catalan system,
                which sounds very promising. English differs so much from
                Afrikaans regarding syntax and vocabulary, it seems like a
                monumental project trying to develop a translating system
                for such a little-spoken language. (Not that I'm dissing
                my own language at all, just curious as to your reasons).
                Anrie 09:30, 21 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                      Ok thanks (on the core topics part).

                      I've been working with the Apertium project for a
                      while, doing packaging for Debian. I started
                      English-Afrikaans after seeing a post on Meta [1]
                      from User:Greenman. I was interested in starting up
                      a pair of my own and decided to ask him if he was
                      interested in joining me. I made a basic system to
                      demonstrate it to him, and have since been improving
                      it in my spare time. Unfortunately he is too busy to
                      help me.

                      English<->Afrikaans is not too bad a pair actually.
                      The vocabulary is similar in many cases, although
                      there are amiguities (prepositions as always are
                      tricky). For Germanic languages, I'd say that they
                      are the two that are closest together that are
                      "widely spoken" (e.g. not Frisian, Plaatdutsch
                      etc.). The morphology is greatly reduced in both in
                      comparison to other Germanic languages, e.g. no
                      cases, simple verb conjugation, favouring analytic
                      over synthetic constructions.

                      This reduced morphology makes writing the
                      dictionaries easier, and although I think that there
                      will be issues regarding word-order (SVO vs. SOV),
                      it is a worthwhile project. It could (in the future)
                      help speed up the localisation of free software into
                      Afrikaans.

                      Its worth remembering that almost any translation
                      project is worthwhile, they can just have different
                      focusses. For example, the Spanish-Catalan system
                      focusses on 'assimilation and dissemination',
                      whereas other more distance pairs might just focus
                      on 'assimilation', e.g. understanding rather than
                      producing high quality translations for publication.
                      This is why we have a Welsh-English and
                      Catalan-English projects in the pipeline too
                      (actually the Catalan one is quite good too -- but
                      not publishable quality). The aim is always for
                      publishable quality, which is what I'm looking for,
                      but 'assimilation' is a nice by-product. - Francis
                      Tyers 12:40, 21 Mei 2007 (UTC)

                            Wikipedia:Kernartikels <-- guess this is is. -
                            Francis Tyers 21:19, 21 Mei 2007 (UTC)

[wysig] Hersiening

   Francis het die afgelope maande, in plaas daarvan om meer artikels by
   te dra, eerder daarop gekonsentreer om sy program te verbeter.

   Hy het onderneem om in die toekoms:
    1. Op belangrike onderwerpe te konsentreer, bv. die by
       Wikipedia:Kernartikels. Saadjies oor hierdie onderwerpe het 'n baie
       goeie kans om deur ander gebruikers uitgebrei te word (anders as
       sommige van die menigte 1-sin saadjies wat ons het).
    2. Die saadjies sal van 'n aanvaarbare lengte wees, m.a.w. 'n paar
       paragrawe i.p.v. net 'n sin of twee.
    3. Daar sal slegs een so 'n artikel geskep word per week, indien so
       baie.
    4. Ek (of iemand anders) sal altyd byderhand wees om die artikel te
       wysig. Daar sal twee dadelike wysigings wees: die eerste wysiging
       is 'n wysiging wat bloot sal verseker dat die artikel 'n getroue
       vertaling van die bronteks is, ten einde terugvoering aan Francis
       te lewer waarvan hy sy vertaling kan evalueer en sy program
       verander. Die tweede wysiging sal die taal en styl verbeter.

   Ek plaas dit maar net hier vir diegene wat wonder wat van die saak
   geword het op die ou einde. Anrie 21:13, 17 Augustus 2007 (UTC)

